{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Italic;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-BoldItalic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red50\green81\blue124;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c25098\c39608\c56078;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\parhyphenfactor20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs57\fsmilli28800 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Course Syllabus\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 SURVMETH 670
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Survey Design Seminar
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Winter 2026\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 INSTRUCTORS
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Michael Elliott, 4068 ISR-Thompson 734-647-5160\'a0\'a0\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:mrelliot@umich.edu"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 mrelliot@umich.edu}}\cb1 \
\cb2 Michael Traugott, 4460 ISR-Thompson 734-763-4702\'a0\'a0\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:mtrau@umich.edu"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 mtrau@umich.edu}}\cb1 \
\cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 CLASS MEETINGS
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 9:30 AM - 12:00 PM Thursdays, 1070 ISR-Thompson (Michigan) and 1208 Lefrak Hall (Maryland), starting January 8, 2026\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 PRE-REQUISITES
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Completion of courses in applied sampling and data collection methods OR completion of an introduction to survey methodology course OR permission of instructors.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 COURSE CONTENT
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 The Survey Design Seminar is a practical training element for students in the University of Maryland\'92s Joint Program in Survey Methodology and the University of Michigan\'92s Program in Survey and Data Science Masters\'92 degree programs. It prepares students to work with real-world clients on methodological problems as they develop skills in consulting for survey design, data collection, analysis, and data science. Instruction is provided in consulting skills, professional presentations, developing research proposals in response to requests for proposals, and professional conduct.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 COURSE EXPECTATIONS
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 This course meets weekly simultaneously at the University of Maryland and the University of Michigan. Typical class sessions are two and one-half hours and usually include lecture and discussion. For the client and student presentation sessions (see\'a0
\f2\i Team Assignments
\f0\i0 \'a0below) on January 22, February 19, and April 2, class sessions are expected to be at least three hours.\cb1 \
\cb2 Regular attendance at class sessions is required, and in-person attendance at all class sessions is a requirement of the program. If a student is unable to attend a particular class session, they are required to notify the instructors via email at least 15 minutes before the start of the class session.\cb1 \
\cb2 This is a two-campus course, and the instructors are both at the University of Michigan. They each expect to travel to the University of Maryland once during the semester.\cb1 \
\cb2 The course will utilize the University of Michigan Canvas course site system. Each student will be registered on the Michigan Canvas system. The course web site will include weekly overviews of what is expected for the coming week, materials to be read for class, the course daily schedule, assignments, facilities for submission of assignments, and facilities for return of marked assignments.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given the nature of the instructor advising role with each team (see below), instructors will not post specific office hours. Students wanting to meet with an instructor, individually or as a team, should schedule appointments by email or in person.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf0 \cb2 \'a0Client Consulting Team Project
\f0\i0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 The instructors have recruited six clients (see Client Summaries below) with methodological projects that need survey and data science expert consulting. The course web site has folders with background materials provided by each client. All students are expected, as part of ungraded Task 1, to read the background material for each client before the first class session on January 8. This background reading should serve as the basis for each student\'92s first and second client preference. Teams will be formed as much as possible on the basis of first preference. In cases where too many students prefer a particular client, instructors will first select students to be moved to another client as their second preference. If second preference cannot be met either, then randomly selected students will be assigned to a team to balance the size of the teams.\cb1 \
\cb2 Teams will be formed with students from both campuses. Teams will be responsible for organizing team meetings and designating team members to interact with the client. Each team will have one of the two instructors as a team adviser throughout the consulting process.\cb1 \
\cb2 Clients will be invited to a regular class session (January 22) to make a presentation about the methodological problem they would like addressed. All students will attend all client presentations. During and after the team\'92s client presentation, the team members will be expected to interact with the client, asking questions and attempting to understand fully the nature of the client\'92s methodological problems.\cb1 \
\cb2 Following the initial client meeting, instructors will meet with teams weekly in and outside of class to advise them about such tasks as developing conceptual understandings of the client\'92s problem, operationalizing conceptual measures, developing proposals on how to address client problems, reviewing relevant literature, developing a presentation of the team ideas, and so on. Instructors will be available for individual appointments with students on an \'93as needed\'94 basis.\cb1 \
\cb2 On February 19, clients will be invited back to the classroom to hear a preliminary 15 to 20-minute presentation by the team. On April 2, students will make a final 20-minute presentation to the client. In most cases, the students will submit to the client a set of slides outlining the results of their review, summarizing investigations, and discussing recommendations. There may be additional products such as a bibliography, draft questionnaire, or a sample design. Each student must give part of either the preliminary or final presentation.\cb1 \
\cb2 The following is a brief summary of the client projects; fuller descriptions are on the Canvas site:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\i\b \cf0 \cb2 Design surveys in two African countries concerning attitudes toward dual citizenship
\f1\i0 .
\f0\b0 \'a0We are designing a multi-country survey in West Africa on public opinions of dual citizenship. Prior research on these themes has been largely concentrated in the global North; recent experiences across Africa, however, demonstrate the potential contentiousness of citizens holding two nationalities on a variety of political and economic outcomes. A number of African governments have recently moved to either restrict or liberalize dual nationality policies, while there is also considerable variation in public support for these policies. In addition, over half of African countries prevent elected officials from holding multiple nationalities; in several cases, incumbent regimes have prevented opposition politicians with dual citizenship from running for office in the first place. Our project aims to probe when and why citizens support dual citizenship and whether nationality laws affecting political office holders shape popular perceptions of the democratic process more broadly. The surveys are planned for two countries \'96 C\'f4te d\'92Ivoire and Liberia\cb1 \

\f3\i\b \cb2 Evaluate the result of experiments to increase response rates.
\f0\i0\b0 \'a0The American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) is a professional and credentialing association which currently has approximately 241,000 members and affiliates who are audiologists, speech-language pathologists, speech, language, and hearing scientists, audiology and speech-language pathology assistants, and students. The Surveys and Analysis Team (SAT) conducts 75-100 online surveys, 1-2 paper/pencil surveys, and several focus groups each year, with our members comprising almost all of the survey participants. As with most survey researchers, we have experienced a decline in survey participation over the last decade, especially within the last five years. We have completed many methodological experiments over the past few years that can include changes to messaging, modality, data collection methods, and reporting with the goal of increasing the engagement of our members in the survey process. However, we have only evaluated the success of these methods in isolation within a given survey and fielding year. We would like to look at these experiments more holistically and determine some overall recommendations related to improving member engagement in our surveys.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\i\b \cf0 \cb2 Assessing the Effectiveness of Alternative Contact and Recruitment Strategies for Survey Respondents
\f1\i0 .
\f0\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 The Health and Retirement Survey (HRS) is a longitudinal panel study that began in 1992 at the Survey Research Center. It is a national sample of adults over the age of 50 and their spouses in the United States, and every six years a new birth cohort of adults aged 51-56 is recruited into the panel to replenish the sample.\'a0 The project seeks to develop a data collection protocol that will be applied in the recruitment and interviewing of these MGX persons between 2027 and 2028. We are open to the discussion of potential experiments designed to optimize the data collection protocol, since this fresh probability sample will be released in a series of sample replicates (each of which will be worked within a defined time window of 4-6 months). The project has provided a list of topics and challenges on which we would like to consult with the PSDS students.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\i\b \cf0 \cb2 Evaluating the Usability of an Online Survey Instrument in Crisis Circumstances
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 The Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID) is one of the longest running surveys conducted by the Survey Research Center in ISR. Across almost six decades of data collection from an original sample and the succeeding generations of family members, the mode of interviewing has moved from face-to-face interviews with paper and pencil questionnaires to telephone interviews employing CATI systems to now employing an online questionnaire. The PSID research team is interested in an initial look at usability issues with the online application and how it may affect data quality. The purpose of this project would be to conduct the first steps of a more systematic usability review. This would involve further testing of the web instrument and a quantitative analysis of paradata such as interview timings and break off points. The student team would interact with the PSID leadership team and SMP faculty.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\i\b \cf0 \cb2 Analyze a Membership Survey and Suggest Strategies for Membership Engagement and Participation.\'a0
\f0\i0\b0 \'a0The Ann Arbor Rotary Club has a recent membership survey they would like analyzed, with the results converted to a strategy for continued membership engagement and survey response. They are interested in answers for the following questions, based on the analysis:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Which groups of members are most engaged or least engaged?\'a0 How can we improve member engagement and retention?\'a0 How can we recruit and retain members, especially younger professionals?\'a0 How can future surveys be improved? What questions or formats would yield more actionable data? Can we design a strategy for ongoing feedback and improvement?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Development of a Cross-national Survey of Consumer Attitudes.\'a0
\f0\b0 Survey Monkey is interested in developing survey items to measure consumer attitudes with a cross-national perspective. A client doing a project for a news organization wants to develop a survey to understand consumers\'92 personal financial sentiment today to develop into targeted articles for media publication. Their hypothesis is that consumers across various countries (specifically the US, UK, Canada and Australia) are experiencing financial strain, and need data to support this narrative.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Their main question is: how are consumers feeling about their personal finances today? They are looking for a comprehensive dive across various angles, including sentiment surrounding or related to job security, day-to-day spending, emergency savings and retirement. The client wants major life milestones taken into account, for example differences in sentiment and financial planning across gender, generations, and countries.\cb1 \
\cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf0 \cb2 Individual Proposal Writing Project
\f0\i0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 In the last third of the course, students will develop and write a response to a Request for Proposals (RFP) provided by the instructors. This will be an individual and not a team project activity. That is, students may\'a0
\f1\b not\'a0
\f0\b0 collaborate with other students on the development or writing of their proposal, and each student will receive an individual and not a team score for the proposal project (see \'93Grades\'94 below).\cb1 \
\cb2 The instructors will post the RFP on the Canvas site on March 13 (see Syllabus below). Students will read the RFP and one week later submit any questions they have to clarify the nature of the project described in the RFP. During the March 19 class session, the instructors will host a \'93Bidders\'92 Conference\'94 where they will answer student questions.\cb1 \
\cb2 Bidders\'92 Conference questions and answers will also be posted on Canvas after the March 19 class session. In addition, instructors will post three tools on Canvas to help students develop and write their proposals: 1) a survey design checklist and proposal outline covering the core elements students should consider in their proposal; 2) a GANTT chart spreadsheet template for recording tasks and their timelines for delivery; and 3) a budget spreadsheet template students can use to develop a budget for their proposal.\cb1 \
\cb2 The instructors will be available at the April 9 class session to answer student questions about their proposals. The individual student proposals are due April 15 and will be submitted via Canvas.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf0 \cb2 \'a0
\f1\i0\b TEXTBOOK AND READING
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 The principal text is\'a0
\f2\i Statistical Consulting
\f0\i0 , by Javier Cabrera and Andrew McDougall (Springer Science+ Business Media, 2002). You should focus on chapters 1 through 6 and 9, as indicated in the syllabus, referred to as C&M. This is an ebook that you can access through the University of Michigan Library. A second reading source is Alan Weiss,\'a0
\f2\i Getting Started in Consulting
\f0\i0 \'a0(Wiley, 4
\fs24 th
\fs32 \'a0Edition 2019), also available online and for purchase as an ebook, as indicated in the syllabus as AW\cb1 \
\cb2 Additional readings on consulting in statistical practice are also available in the Canvas Files folder \'93Readings.\'94 Reading assignments should be completed before class.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 GRADING
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Students will be evaluated on a number of team assignments and one individual assignment. Each team is responsible for one student submitting team assignments such as the preliminary and final presentation slide sets. Instructors will assign scores for each assignment to all team members.\cb1 \
\cb2 Most team submissions will be graded as check-plus (100), check (90), check-minus (80), and not submitted (0). Marked team submissions are due on the date indicated in the syllabus and will ordinarily be returned before the next class session.\cb1 \
\cb2 The preliminary and final presentations will each be scored on a 100-point basis.\'a0 These presentation scores will not use the \'93check\'94 marking system.\cb1 \
\cb2 The final project is an individual assignment to develop and write a proposal in response to a request for proposals (RFP), and it will be scored on a 100-point basis.\cb1 \
\cb2 There are seven ungraded tasks that all students are expected to complete.\cb1 \
\cb2 The final grade will be a weighted average of scores on the average of six team submissions (20% total), the team preliminary presentation (10%), the team final presentation (20%), and the individual proposal (50%).\cb1 \
\cb2 Near the end of the course, students will also complete a peer evaluation rating of the individual contributions that other team members made to the completion of the team project. If the peer evaluations for an individual are strong, unadjusted individual team score averages will be used to determine final grades. Otherwise, the instructors will adjust an individual\'92s average team score downward to reflect less than adequate contributions to the team project.\cb1 \
\cb2 Students may, no less than one hour before a submission is due, request permission to submit team or individual assignments late. Late submission permission is not guaranteed but is generally granted. If a submission is late, and there is no prior permission, team assignment or individual scores will be reduced by 30 points. Missing or incomplete assignments receive a score of zero.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Academic Misconduct
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 The University of Michigan community functions best when its members treat one another with honesty, fairness, respect, and trust. The college promotes the assumption of personal responsibility and integrity and prohibits all forms of academic dishonesty and misconduct. Being found responsible for academic misconduct will usually result in a grade sanction.\cb1 \
\cb2 Students are expected to adhere to the ethical standards at their respective university where they are registered. In general, instructors consider the presence of a student\'92s name on a document as the student\'92s pledge that the work presented is theirs alone. University academic integrity policies at both campuses have clear definitions of academic misconduct, including cheating and plagiarism, as well as disciplinary sanctions for academic misconduct. Cases of misconduct will be handled according to the respective campus rules and policies.\cb1 \
\cb2 Knowledge of these rules and policies is the responsibility of the student. Ignorance or lack of familiarity does not excuse misconduct.\cb1 \
\cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Use of ChatGPT and other AI Tools
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Instructors in this course may ask you to provide evidence of your learning through written work. When they do, the writing you submit must be of your own creation. Your writing will naturally be informed by other written work. When it is, you must be sure to acknowledge this influence through appropriate citation.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the past, the \'91other written work\'92 was always created by another human. These days, artificial intelligence (AI) tools can be used to generate text, code, and images in response to a prompt. Such automatically generated text is not your work and cannot be submitted as if it is.\cb1 \
\cb2 Work generated by AI tools like ChatGPT is a source that may inform your writing, just as books, papers, lecture notes, websites, and the results of Google searches can. As always, it\'92s your responsibility to assess the reliability of every source you use. In that context, you should be aware that the output of AI tools is constructed to sound plausible, and not checked by any expert. These results are often completely invented.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Course Recordings
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Course lectures may be audio/video recorded and made available to other students in this course. As part of your participation in this course, you may be recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, please contact either instructor the first week of class (or as soon as you enroll in the course, whichever is latest) to discuss alternative arrangements.\cb1 \
\cb2 Additional information regarding course recordings and privacy concerns can be found on the UM ITS Recording and Privacy Concerns webpage.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Disability Statement
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 The University of Michigan recognizes disability as an integral part of diversity and is committed to creating an inclusive and equitable educational environment for students with disabilities. Your instructors invite students who need assistance to request it. Students who are experiencing a disability-related barrier should contact Services for Students with Disabilities ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://ssd.umich.edu/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://ssd.umich.edu/\'a0\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ; 734-763-3000 or\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:ssdoffice@umich.edu"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 ssdoffice@umich.edu}}\'a0. For students who are connected with SSD, accommodation requests can be made in Accommodate. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact your SSD Coordinator or visit SSD\'92s Current Student webpage. SSD considers aspects of the course design, course learning objects and the individual academic and course barriers experienced by the student. Further conversation with SSD, instructors, and the student may be warranted to ensure an accessible course experience.\cb1 \
\cb2 The instructors have been the work to make the Canvas website for the course satisfy the requirements of Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). This is an ongoing process to meet deadline currently set for April 2026.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Mental Health and Well-Being
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 University students may experience stressors that can impact both their academic experience and their personal well-being. These may include academic pressures and challenges associated with relationships, mental health, alcohol or other drugs, identities, finances, etc. If you are experiencing concerns, seeking help is a courageous thing to do for yourself and those who care about you. If the source of your stressors is academic, please contact us so that we can find solutions together. For personal concerns, U-M offers a variety of resources, many which are listed on the Resources for Student Well-being webpage ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://wellbeing.umich.edu/tools-resources/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://wellbeing.umich.edu/tools-resources/\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ).\'a0 You can also search for additional well-being resources on that website.\'a0 The University of Maryland has similar resources, which can be found at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://studentaffairs.umd.edu/health-wellness"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://studentaffairs.umd.edu/health-wellness\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 .\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Sexual Misconduct Policy
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Title IX prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex, which includes sexual misconduct \'97 including harassment, domestic and dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. We understand that sexual violence can undermine students\'92 academic success, and we encourage anyone dealing with sexual misconduct to talk to someone about their experience, so they can get the support they need. Confidential support and academic advocacy can be found with the Sexual Assault Prevention and Awareness Center (SAPAC) on their 24-hour crisis line, 734.936.3333, and at sapac@umich.edu.\cb1 \
\cb2 Alleged violations can be non-confidentially reported to the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office (ECRT) at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:ecrtoffice@umich.edu"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 ecrtoffice@umich.edu}}. The University of Maryland has similar policies, available at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://policies.umd.edu/general-administration/university-of-maryland-policy-and-procedures-on-sexual-harassment-and-other-sexual-misconduct"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://policies.umd.edu/general-administration/university-of-maryland-policy-and-procedures-on-sexual-harassment-and-other-sexual-misconduct\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 .\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 \'a0
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Student Parents and Caregivers
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 If you are pregnant, a parenting student, or primarily responsible for providing care for a loved one or family member, and you are in need of any accommodations, please let the instructors know at your earliest convenience. You may also reach out to mcasp.org and CEW+ for resources and community support. The University of Maryland has similar policies, available at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.umaryland.edu/ssle/student-success-center/student-resources/resources-for-student-parents-and-caregivers/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://www.umaryland.edu/ssle/student-success-center/student-resources/resources-for-student-parents-and-caregivers/\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 .\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Online Course Evaluations
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Both universities have online student course evaluation systems. All students are urged to use the online course evaluation system at the end of the term, since course evaluations will only be available to other students when a required minimum number of registered students complete the evaluation.\cb1 \
\cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 \'a0
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Classroom
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f1\b Schedule
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Week 1 (Jan 8)\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Lecture/Discussion:
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f2\i Course introduction. Understanding client problems & needs, forming client relationships, managing client meetings.\'a0
\f0\i0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Task 1:
\f0\b0 \'a0Mark initial project preference on Canvas Assignment document for Task 1.\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Reading:
\f0\b0 \'a0Arndt & Woolson (1991), Kauermann & Weihs (2007), Kirk(1991), Marquardt (1979), Moses &Louis (1984), Stegman (1985), Turner(1982), Zahn & Isenberg (1983).\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Instructors:
\f0\b0 \'a0ME/MT\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 \'a0
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Week 2 (Jan 15)\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Lecture/Discussion:
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f2\i Types of consulting and problem-solving arrangements, work initiation, responding to requests.\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0
\f0\i0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Reading:
\f0\b0 \'a0AW (pp. 281-289, Appendix H), Orr & Orr (2013) Chapters 2, 3, 5, 6, and 8.\'a0\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Instructor:\'a0
\f0\b0 MT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Week 3 (Jan 22)\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Client presentations:
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f2\i Clients make presentations & answer student questions.\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0
\f0\i0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Assignment 1
\f0\b0 \'a0(Due Jan 21): Client research questions\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Task 2:
\f0\b0 \'a0Participate as consultant\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Task 3:
\f0\b0 \'a0Final client preferences (Due Jan 23)\'a0\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Instructors:
\f0\b0 \'a0ME/MT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Week 4: (Jan 29)\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Lecture/Discussion:
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f2\i Project management -- organizing work, hiring staff, work location, setting up an office, organizing a literature review.\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0
\f0\i0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Assignment 2 (Due Jan 30):
\f0\b0 \'a0250-word memo summarizing client research questions, hypotheses, approach to the problem, task list, and schedule for each task.\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Reading:
\f0\b0 \'a0AW (pp. 23-44, Chapter 2), Prewitt (1983), Prewitt (2008)\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Instructor:\'a0
\f0\b0 MT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Week 5: (Feb 5)
\f0\b0 : \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Lecture/Discussion:
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f2\i Alternative quantitative &qualitative research designs, reviewing prior work, strengths & weaknesses of using existing data vs. implementing new data collection and secondary analysis vs. original data, sources of questions, data comparability vs. better measurement.
\f0\i0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Meet instructor mentors during class.
\f0\b0 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Assignment 3 (Due Feb 6):
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f2\i Two-page double-spaced progress report.
\f0\i0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Reading:
\f0\b0 \'a0Borenstein, Hedges &Rothstein (2007), Smets & van Ham(2013).\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Instructor:
\f0\b0 \'a0MT\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 \'a0
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Week 6: (Feb 12)\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Student Presentations:
\f0\b0 \'a0Students make practice presentation to\'a0 clients for comments from class\'a0\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Assignment 4 (Due February 10):
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f2\i Student preliminary presentation final slides for group meeting with instructor
\f0\i0 \'a0 \'a0\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Assignment 5 (Due February 12):
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f2\i Preliminary presentation to class
\f0\i0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Instructor:
\f0\b0 \'a0ME\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Week 7: (Feb 19)\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Discussion.
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f2\i Student presentations to clients\'a0 \'a0
\f0\i0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Assignment 6 (Due February\'a0 20):
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f2\i Student comments on preliminary presentation in a two-page memo
\f0\i0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0
\f1\b Instructors:\'a0
\f0\b0 ME/MT\cb1 \
\cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Week 8: (Feb 26)\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Lecture/Discussion.
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f2\i Ethical issues in data collection, storage, management, reporting publishing, authorship, & copyright. Securing confidentiality, anonymity.
\f0\i0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0
\f1\b Reading:
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f2\i Miller (2005), Jacques (2013), Chapter 11 in Groves et al (2009), Lacour & Green (2014), Broockman et al. (2015), Foster(2015), Gelman (2015), MIT Economics (2025), NAS Authorship, IP, & Handling Data(2009), Oakes (2012), Singal (2015), Stanford Best Practices in Science (2025), Starbuck (2013), Statistical Modeling (2025), Thomas & Quinn (1991).
\f0\i0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\i\b \cf0 \cb2 Task 4:
\f2\b0 \'a0Download & review mock RFP (available 5 PM, February 27).
\f0\i0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0
\f1\b Instructor:
\f0\b0 \'a0ME\cb1 \
\cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Week 9: (Mar 5)
\f0\b0 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 No class; Michigan winter term break.\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Week 10 (Mar 12)\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Lecture/Discussion:
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f2\i Understanding and responding to RFP\'92s -- preparing budgets, budgeting (IDC, payment schedules), work plans, and structuring a proposal.\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0
\f0\i0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Reading:\'a0
\f0\b0 AW (pp. 146-172, Chapter 7); Jacques, Chapters 4-7, 11; University of Michigan Library System, \'93Research Funding and Grants Guide\'94 ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://guides.lib.umich.edu/c.php?g=283405&p=1887268&utm_source=library-search"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://guides.lib.umich.edu/c.php?g=283405&p=1887268&utm_source=library-search\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ).\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Task 5:
\f0\b0 \'a0Submit questions for Bidders\'92 Conference (March 18).\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Instructor:
\f0\b0 \'a0ME/MT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Week 11: (Mar 19)\'a0 \'a0 Bidders Conference
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf0 \cb2 Bidders' Conference (10:45-11:30)
\f0\i0 \cb1 \

\f2\i \cb2 Instructors post Bidders Conference questions and answers, design checklist/proposal outline, Gantt chart template, and budget template.
\f0\i0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Assignment 8 (Due Mar 19):
\f0\b0 \'a0Attend bidders' conference.\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Instructors:
\f0\b0 \'a0ME/MT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Week 12: (March 26)\'a0
\f3\i Second Practice for client presentations:
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 \'a0Assignment 7 (Due Mar 25)
\f3\i :\'a0
\f0\i0\b0 Student preliminary presentation draft slides.\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Instructors:\'a0
\f0\b0 ME/MT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Week 13: (Apr 2)
\f0\b0 \'a0\'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0\'a0
\f3\i\b \'a0
\f1\i0 Final presentations to clients and client feedback
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Task 6:
\f0\b0 \'a0Post final presentations to clients.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Instructors: ME/MT\cb1 \
\cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Week 14: (April 9) \'a0 \'a0\'a0Discuss final products for clients and closing projects out during team meetings
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Discuss RFP development:\'a0
\f2\i\b0 Instructors answer questions about student proposals being developed.
\f0\i0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 Week 15: (Apr 16)\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 No class
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Assignment 9 (Due Apr 16): Final work product for client
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Assignment 10 (Due April 15):\'a0
\f0\b0 Final individual project due (Response to the RFP)\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Task 7\'a0 (Due April 17 @5pm):
\f0\b0 \'a0
\f2\i Teammate evaluations
\f0\i0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Instructors:
\f0\b0 \'a0ME/MT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'a0
\f1\b\fs24 \'a0
\f0\b0\fs32 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 REFERENCES
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Arndt, S., & Woolson, R. F. (1991). Establishing a biostatistical core unit in a clinical research center,\'a0
\f2\i The American Statistician
\f0\i0 , 45(1), 22-27.\cb1 \
\cb2 Borenstein, M., Hedges, L., & Rothstein, H. (2007). Introduction to Meta-Analysis.\cb1 \
\cb2 Broockman, D., Kalla, J., Aronow, P. (2015). Irregularities in LaCour. (2014). Available at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://osf.io/preprints/metaarxiv/qy2se_v1"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://osf.io/preprints/metaarxiv/qy2se_v1\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 .\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Fink, D., & L\'f6wenbein, O. (2010). A management consulting view on the statistical consulting process replica on statistical consulting.\'a0
\f2\i ASA Advances in Statistical Analysis
\f0\i0 ,\'a0
\f2\i 94
\f0\i0 , 105\'96109.\cb1 \
\cb2 Foster, D. (2015). Will Academia Waste the Michael LaCour Scandal?{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://nymag.com/scienceofus/2015/06/will-academia-waste-the-michael-lacour-"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 http://nymag.com/scienceofus/2015/06/will-academia-waste-the-michael-lacour-\'a0\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'a0\ul scandal.html\cb1 \ulnone \
\cb2 Gelman, A. (2015). Fake study on changing attitudes: Sometimes a claim that is too good to be true, isn\'92t.\ul https://{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/monkey-cage/wp/2015/05/20/fake-"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ulc4 \strokec4 www.washingtonpost.com/news/monkey-cage/wp/2015/05/20/fake-\'a0\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulnone \'a0\ul study-on-changing-attitudes-sometimes-a-claim-that-is-too-good-to-be-true-isnt/\cb1 \ulnone \
\cb2 Groves, R.M., Fowler, F.J. Jr., Couper, M.P., Lepkowski, J.M., Singer, E., & Tourangeau, R. (2009).\'a0
\f2\i Survey Methodology, 2nd Edition
\f0\i0 . New York: Wiley. (available online at:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mirlyn.lib.umich.edu/Record/006868217)"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 http://mirlyn.lib.umich.edu/Record/006868217)\'a0\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Gullion, C. M., & Berman, N. (2007). What statistical consultants do: Report of a Survey.\'a0
\f2\i The American Statistician
\f0\i0 ,
\f2\i 60
\f0\i0 (2), 130\'96138.\cb1 \
\cb2 Jacques, Emma (2013).\'a0
\f2\i The Winning Bid: A Practical Guide to Successful Bid Management
\f0\i0 . UK: Kogan Page.\cb1 \
\cb2 Kauermann, G., & Weihs, C. (2007). Statistical consulting.\'a0
\f2\i ASA Advances in Statistical Analysis
\f0\i0 ,\'a0
\f2\i 91
\f0\i0 , 343\'96347.\cb1 \
\cb2 Kenett, R., & Thyregod, P. (2006). Aspects of statistical consulting not taught by academia.\'a0
\f2\i Statistica Neerlandica
\f0\i0 ,
\f2\i 60
\f0\i0 (3), 396\'96411.\cb1 \
\cb2 Kirk (1991). Statistical consulting in a university: Dealing with people and other challenges,\'a0
\f2\i The American Statistician
\f0\i0 , 45(1), 28-34\cb1 \
\cb2 LaCour, M. J., & Green, D. P. (2014). When contact changes minds: An experiment on transmission of support for gay equality.\'a0
\f2\i Science,\'a0
\f0\i0 346(6215) 1366-1369.\cb1 \
\cb2 Lankow, J., J. Ritchie and R. Crooks. 2012. Infographics: the power of visual storytelling. Wiley, Hoboken, NJ.(available online at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://library.books24x7.com/toc.aspx?bookid=49632"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 http://library.books24x7.com/toc.aspx?bookid=49632\'a0\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 )\cb1 \
\cb2 Marquardt, D. W. (1979). Statistical consulting in industry,\'a0
\f2\i The American Statistician
\f0\i0 , 33(3), 102-107.\cb1 \
\cb2 Miller, J. E. (2005). Chapter 6 - Creating Effective Charts.\'a0
\f2\i The Chicago Guide to Writing about Multivariate Analysis\'a0
\f0\i0 (2nd ed.). Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.\cb1 \
\cb2 MIT Economics. (2025). \'93Assuring an accurate research record.\'94 Available at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://economics.mit.edu/news/assuring-accurate-research-record"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://economics.mit.edu/news/assuring-accurate-research-record\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 .\cb1 \
\cb2 Moses, L. & Louis, T. A. (1984). Statistical consulting in clinical research: The two-way street,\'a0
\f2\i Statistics in Medicine
\f0\i0 ,1-5.\cb1 \
\cb2 National Academy of Sciences. (2009). Authorship and the Allocation of Credit.\'a0
\f2\i On Being a Scientist: A Guide to Responsible Conduct in Research: Third Edition
\f0\i0 . 35-38.\cb1 \
\cb2 National Academy of Sciences. (2009). Intellectual Property.\'a0
\f2\i On Being a Scientist: A Guide to Responsible Conduct in Research: Third Edition
\f0\i0 . 39-42.\cb1 \
\cb2 National Academy of Sciences. (2009). The Treatment of Data.\'a0
\f2\i On Being a Scientist: A Guide to Responsible Conduct in Research: Third Edition
\f0\i0 . 8-11.\cb1 \
\cb2 Oakes, J. M. (2002). Risks and wrongs in social science research: An evaluator\'92s guide to the IRB.\'a0
\f2\i Evaluation Review
\f0\i0 , 26(5), 443-479.\cb1 \
\cb2 Orr, Linda M., Orr, Dave J. (2013).\'a0
\f2\i When to Hire-or Not Hire- a Consultant: Getting Your Money\'92s Worth from Consulting Relationships
\f0\i0 , Chapters 2, 3, 5, 6, and 8. California: Apress Media.\cb1 \
\cb2 Pfannkuch, M., & Wild, C. J. (2000). Statistical thinking and statistical practice: themes gleaned from professional statisticians.\'a0
\f2\i Statistical Science
\f0\i0 ,\'a0
\f2\i 15
\f0\i0 (2), 132\'96152.\cb1 \
\cb2 Prewitt, Kenneth (1983) "Management in Survey Organizations" (Chapter 4) in\'a0
\f2\i Handbook of Survey Research
\f0\i0 . Peter Rossi, James Wright, and Andy Anderson (eds.), Academic Press, pp. 123-145.\cb1 \
\cb2 Prewitt, Kenneth (2008). Interview about his career at{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.surveypractice.org/index.php/SurveyPractice/article/view/212/pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 http://www.surveypractice.org/index.php/SurveyPractice/article/view/212/pdf.\'a0\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Singal, J. (2015). Is social science a giant liberal conspiracy?\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://nymag.com/scienceofus/2015/06/social-science-a-giant-liberal-conspiracy.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 http://nymag.com/scienceofus/2015/06/social-science-a-giant-liberal-conspiracy.html\'a0\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Smets, K., & van Ham, C. (2013). The embarrassment of riches? A meta-analysis of individual- level research on voter turnout,\'a0
\f2\i Electoral Studies
\f0\i0 , 32 (2), 344-359.\cb1 \
\cb2 Stanford Best Practices in Science. (2025). \'93Instances of Scientific Misconduct: Aidan Toner-Rodgers.\'94 Available at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://bps.stanford.edu/home/instances-scientific-misconduct/Aidan-Toner-Rodgers"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://bps.stanford.edu/home/instances-scientific-misconduct/Aidan-Toner-Rodgers\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 .\cb1 \
\cb2 Starbuck, W. H. (2003). Turning lemons into lemonade: Where is the value in peer reviews?\'a0
\f2\i Journal of Management Inquiry
\f0\i0 , 12(4), 344-351.\cb1 \
\cb2 Statistical Modeling, Causal Inference, and Social Science. (2025). \'93If only Arxiv required researchers to sign at the top rather than the bottom of the page, none of this would\'92ve happened.\'94 Available at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://statmodeling.stat.columbia.edu/2025/05/19/if-only-arxiv-required-researchers-to-sign-at-the-top-rather-than-the-bottom-of-the-page-none-of-this-wouldve-happened/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://statmodeling.stat.columbia.edu/2025/05/19/if-only-arxiv-required-researchers-to-sign-at-the-top-rather-than-the-bottom-of-the-page-none-of-this-wouldve-happened/\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 .\cb1 \
\cb2 Stegman, C. E. (1985). Statistical consulting in the university: A faculty member\'92s perspective,\'a0
\f2\i Journal Educational Statistics
\f0\i0 , 269-282.\cb1 \
\cb2 Thomas, S. B., & Quinn, S. C. (1991). The Tuskegee Syphilis Study, 1932 to 1972: implications for HIV education and AIDS risk education programs in the black community
\f2\i . American Journal of Public Health
\f0\i0 , 81(11),1498\'961505.\cb1 \
\cb2 Traugott, M. W. (n.d.) The basic elements of writing up research (DRAFT).\cb1 \
\cb2 Turner, A. N. (1982) .Consulting is More than Giving Advice,\'a0
\f2\i Harvard Business Review
\f0\i0 . Tweedie, R., & Taylor, S.(1998). Real problems, real interactions, real outcomes.\'a0
\f2\i Statistical Science
\f0\i0 ,\'a0
\f2\i 13
\f0\i0 (1), 1\'963.\cb1 \
\cb2 University of Michigan Library System, \'93Research Funding and Grants Guide,\'94 accessed December 19, 2025, at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://guides.lib.umich.edu/c.php?g=283405&p=1887268&utm_source=library-search"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://guides.lib.umich.edu/c.php?g=283405&p=1887268&utm_source=library-search\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb2 \ul \ulc4 Links to an external site.\cb1 \ulnone \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 .\cb1 \
\cb2 Unwin, A. (2007). Statistical consulting interactions: a personal view.\'a0
\f2\i ASA Advances in Statistical Analysis
\f0\i0 ,\'a0
\f2\i 91
\f0\i0 , 349\'96359.\cb1 \
\cb2 Vance, E. A. (2015). Recent developments and their implications for the future of academic statistical consulting centers.\'a0
\f2\i The American Statistician
\f0\i0 ,\'a0
\f2\i 69
\f0\i0 (2), 127\'96137.\cb1 \
\cb2 Zahn, D. A., & Isenberg, D. J. (1983). Nonstatistical aspects of statistical consulting,\'a0
\f2\i The American Statistician
\f0\i0 ,37(4a), 297-302.\'a0\cb1 \
\cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\cb2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \cb2 \'a0
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Concise Course Schedule
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb2 Date\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Details\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Due
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Thu Jan 8, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Calendar Event SURVMETH 670 101 WN 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 9:30am to 12pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Task 1:\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Initial project preferences\cb1 \
\cb2 Thu Jan 15, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Calendar Event SURVMETH 670 101 WN 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 9:30am to 12pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Thu Jan 22, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Calendar Event SURVMETH 670 101 WN 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 9:30am to 12pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Assignment 0: \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 PEERRS Certification, ISR Confidentiality Pledge due by 9:30am\cb1 \
\cb2 Assignment 1: \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Client research questions (Due Jan 21)\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 due by 9:30am\cb1 \
\cb2 Task 2: \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Student-consultant interaction with the client \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 due by 9:30am\cb1 \
\cb2 Task 3:\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Final client preferences (Due Jan 23)\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 due by 11:59pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Thu Jan 29, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Calendar Event SURVMETH 670 101 WN 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 9:30am to 12pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Assignment 2: \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Meet with mentor, initial research plan memo \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 due by 9:30am\cb1 \
\cb2 Thu Feb 5, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Calendar Event SURVMETH 670 101 WN 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 9:30am to 12pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Assignment 3:\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Two-page double spaced progress report (Due Feb 6)\cb1 \
\cb2 Thu Feb 12, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Calendar Event SURVMETH 670 101 WN 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 9:30am to 12pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Assignment 4: \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Prepare preliminary slides (Due Feb 9 by 12pm)\cb1 \
\cb2 Thu Feb 19, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Calendar Event SURVMETH 670 101 WN 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 9:30am to 12pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Assignment 5: \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Student comments on preliminary presentation\'a0\'a0 due by 1pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Thu Feb 26, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Calendar Event SURVMETH 670 101 WN 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 9:30am to 12pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Assignment 6: \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Make initial client presentation \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 due by 9:30am\cb1 \
\cb2 Thu Mar 12, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 No class \'96 Michigan Winter Break\cb1 \
\cb2 Thu Mar 15, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Task 4: Download mock RFP \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Available by 5pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Thu Mar 19, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Calendar Event SURVMETH 670 101 WN 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 9:30am to 12pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Assignment 6: \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Submit draft slides for final Client Presentation\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 due by 9am\cb1 \
\cb2 Task 5: \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Submit Bidder Conference questions\'a0 by Mar 23 \'a0 due by 9am\cb1 \
\cb2 Thu Mar 26, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Practice session for client presentations \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 9:30 to 10:45am\cb1 \
\cb2 Assignment 7: \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Attend the Bidders Conference \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 10:45 to 12pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Assignment 8\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 File upload test \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 due by 5pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Thu Apr 2, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Calendar Event SURVMETH 670 101 WN 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 9:30am to 12pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Task 6: \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Final presentations to clients \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 9:30 am to 12 pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Mon Apr 6, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Assignment 8: Work Products for Clients \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 due by 11:59pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Assignment Task 7: \'a0\'a0 Teammate evaluations (Due April 9)\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 due by 11:59pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Thu Apr 9, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Final products for clients, close out projects \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 9:30am to 12pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Thu Apr 16, 2026 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 No class \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 9:30am to 12pm\cb1 \
\cb2 Assignment 9: \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Upload response to the RFP \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 due by 11:59pm\cb1 \
}